Download the le ProgAssignment3-data.zip le containing the data for Programming Assignment 3 from
the Coursera web site. Unzip the le in a directory that will serve as your working directory. When you
start up R make sure to change your working directory to the directory where you unzipped the data.
The data for this assignment come from the Hospital Compare web site (http://hospitalcompare.hhs.gov)
run by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The purpose of the web site is to provide data and
information about the quality of care at over 4,000 Medicare-certied hospitals in the U.S. This dataset es-
sentially covers all major U.S. hospitals. This dataset is used for a variety of purposes, including determining
whether hospitals should be ned for not providing high quality care to patients (see http://goo.gl/jAXFX
for some background on this particular topic).
The Hospital Compare web site contains a lot of data and we will only look at a small subset for this
assignment. The zip le for this assignment contains three les
• outcome-of-care-measures.csv: Contains information about 30-day mortality and readmission rates
for heart attacks, heart failure, and pneumonia for over 4,000 hospitals.
• hospital-data.csv: Contains information about each hospital.
• Hospital_Revised_Flatfiles.pdf: Descriptions of the variables in each le (i.e the code book).
A description of the variables in each of the les is in the included PDF le named Hospital_Revised_Flatfiles.pdf.
This document contains information about many other les that are not included with this programming
assignment. You will want to focus on the variables for Number 19 (\Outcome of Care Measures.csv") and
Number 11 (\Hospital Data.csv"). You may nd it useful to print out this document (at least the pages for
Tables 19 and 11) to have next to you while you work on this assignment. In particular, the numbers of
the variables for each table indicate column indices in each table (i.e. \Hospital Name" is column 2 in the
outcome-of-care-measures.csv le).

Write a function called best that take two arguments: the 2-character abbreviated name of a state and an
outcome name. The function reads the outcome-of-care-measures.csv le and returns a character vector
with the name of the hospital that has the best (i.e. lowest) 30-day mortality for the specied outcome
in that state. The hospital name is the name provided in the Hospital.Name variable. The outcomes can
be one of \heart attack", \heart failure", or \pneumonia". Hospitals that do not have data on a particular
outcome should be excluded from the set of hospitals when deciding the rankings.

Write a function called rankhospital that takes three arguments: the 2-character abbreviated name of a
state (state), an outcome (outcome), and the ranking of a hospital in that state for that outcome (num).
The function reads the outcome-of-care-measures.csv le and returns a character vector with the name
of the hospital that has the ranking specied by the num argument.

Write a function called rankall that takes two arguments: an outcome name (outcome) and a hospital rank-
ing (num). The function reads the outcome-of-care-measures.csv le and returns a 2-column data frame
containing the hospital in each state that has the ranking specied in num. For example the function call
rankall("heart attack", "best") would return a data frame containing the names of the hospitals that
are the best in their respective states for 30-day heart attack death rates. The function should return a value
for every state (some may be NA). The rst column in the data frame is named hospital, which contains
the hospital name, and the second column is named state, which contains the 2-character abbreviation for
the state name. Hospitals that do not have data on a particular outcome should be excluded from the set of
hospitals when deciding the rankings.
